Synthetics getting started guide (#6147)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/getting_started/synthetics/api_test.md

## Create an API test

> [API tests][1] help you monitor your API endpoints and alert you when they are failing or too slow. These checks verify that your applications are responding to requests and meet any conditions you define, such as response time, HTTP status code, and header or body contents. Use the [Datadog API][2] to see the full list.

Reviewer: first link seems broken as well

Author: Whoops, yes. And the headers are all off as my changes didn't save. Will add those in.

In this example, an API test is created to ensure your website is constantly up and providing responses in a specific amount of time.

### Configure the request

1. In the Datadog application, hover over **[UX Monitoring][3]** in the left hand menu and select **Synthetics Test**. 
2. In the top right corner, click the **New Test** button. 
3. Select **API test**.
4. Define the configuration of your API test:

>     - Add the URL of the endpoint you want to monitor. If you don’t know what to start with, you can use https://www.shopist.io/ which is a test web application.”

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Add the URL of the endpoint you want to monitor. If you don’t know what to start with, you can use `https://www.shopist.io/`, which is a test web application.
```

>     - Select **Advance Options** to use custom request headers, authentication credentials, body content, or cookies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Select **Advanced Options** to use custom request headers, authentication credentials, body content, or cookies.
```

>     - Add one or two tags, like `prod`, to help organize and filter tests.

Reviewer 2: should we say "some" tags? this wording makes me think you must add either one or two tags in order for this to work

>     - Add one or two tags, like `prod`, to help organize and filter tests.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Add some tags to help organize and filter tests.
```

    - Select locations for testing.
    - Click the **Test URL** button.

#### Define your alert conditions

Now that the test is completed, if you did not create any [assertions][4], they are automatically populated. API tests require at least one assertion to be monitored by Datadog. An assertion is defined by a parameter, an optional property, a comparator, and a target value.

In this example, three default assertions are populated when testing the URL:

{{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/assertions-example.png" alt="Browser test failure" responsive="true" style="width:90%;">}}

> These assertions define the alert condition and can be customized. To add a custom assertion, click on any response header in the response preview. You can also click the **New Assertion** button to add an assertion manually, (e.g., `body` contains `Shop.ist`.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These assertions define the alert condition and can be customized. To add a custom assertion, click on any response header in the response preview. You can also click the **New Assertion** button to add an assertion manually (e.g., `body` contains `Shop.ist`.)
```

{{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/api-test-configuration.gif" alt="Browser test failure" responsive="true" style="width:90%;">}}

> To configure the manual retry of a test when it fails, set:

Reviewer: Let's mention these two features separately as they're pretty different:

You can set up an alerting condition in order to only be alerted if your endpoint goes down for three minutes, on two different locations:

```
An alert is triggered if your test fails for 3 minutes from any 2 of 13 locations`
```

You can also decide after how many failures you want a location to be considered as fail using the below option:

```
Retry x time before location is marked as failed
```

```
An alert is triggered if your test fails for x minutes from any x of x locations`
Retry x time before location is marked as failed
```

> Once alert conditions are set, create a message for the alert and specify what services and team members to receive the alert notification email and click **Save Test**. You can also use [integrations][5], such as Slack, Pagerduty, webhooks, etc., to receive alert notifications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once alert conditions are set, create a message for the alert and specify what services and team members receive the alert notification email and click **Save Test**. You can also use [integrations][5], such as Slack, PagerDuty, webhooks, etc., to receive alert notifications.
```

### Test results

An **API test** homepage will automatically populate after save. This page includes property information, historical graphs for response time and uptime, sample results, and all events and test results.

To troubleshoot a failed test, scroll to the Test Results section and click on the **Test Results** tab. Click on the failed test, labeled as `Alert`, to view detailed test results. Review the failed assertions and response details such as returned status code, response time, and associated headers and body to resolve the issue.

> {{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/api-test-failure.png" alt="API test failure" responsive="true" style="width:90%;">}}

Reviewer: Looks like it's still the old screenshot for some reason?

Reviewer: https://cl.ly/ecc63ccadf0f

Datadog also has an [APM integration with Synthetics][6] which allows you to go from a test run that failed to the root cause of the issue by looking at the trace generated by that test run.

> Alerts triggered with the APM integration populate under **Test Results**. Click the result link given to review test details and traces.

Reviewer: I would probably remove that one, I feel like it's not super clear what we mean by alerts here.

---

## Create an API test

[API tests][1] help you monitor your API endpoints and alert you when they are failing or too slow. These checks verify that your applications are responding to requests and meet any conditions you define, such as response time, HTTP status code, and header or body contents. Use the [Datadog API][2] to see the full list.

In this example, an API test is created to ensure your website is constantly up and providing responses in a specific amount of time.

### Configure the request

1. In the Datadog application, hover over **[UX Monitoring][3]** in the left hand menu and select **Synthetics Test**. 
2. In the top right corner, click the **New Test** button. 
3. Select **API test**.
4. Define the configuration of your API test:
    - Add the URL of the endpoint you want to monitor. If you don’t know what to start with, you can use `https://www.shopist.io/`, which is a test web application.
    - Select **Advanced Options** to use custom request headers, authentication credentials, body content, or cookies.
    - Add some tags to help organize and filter tests.
    - Select locations for testing.
    - Click the **Test URL** button.

> 

Reviewer: https://cl.ly/30257116fc5e
